Doc 220 creating nodes (#867)
n8n-io/n8n-docs: docs/integrations/creating-nodes/plan/choose-node-method.md

# Choose your node building approach

n8n has two node-building styles:

* Declarative: a JSON-based approach. This is simpler to write, and is the recommended option for most cases.
* Programmatic: this style is more verbose. You must use the programmatic style for:
    * Trigger nodes
    * Any node that isn't REST-based. This includes nodes that need to call a GraphQL API and nodes that use external dependencies.
    * Any node that needs to transform incoming data.
    * If you want to use full versioning. Refer to [Node versioning](/integrations/creating-nodes/build/reference/node-versioning/) for more information on types of versioning.

The main difference between the declarative and programmatic styles is how they handle incoming data and build API requests. The programmatic style requires an `execute()` method, which reads incoming data and parameters, then builds a request. The declarative style handles this using the `routing` key in the `operations` object. Refer to [Node base file](/integrations/creating-nodes/build/reference/node-base-files/) for more information on node parameters and the `execute()` method.

> Compare these code snippets. This example creates a simplified version of the SendGrid integration, called "FriendGrid." The following code snippets aren't complete: they emphasize the differences in the node building styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To better understand the difference between the declarative and programmatic styles, compare the two code snippets below. This example creates a simplified version of the SendGrid integration, called "FriendGrid." The following code snippets aren't complete: they emphasize the differences in the node building styles.
```
